# Skynet
Skynet is an interface to Jenkins, which is an open source automation platform. 
## Pros of Skynet
One of the main benefits of Jenkins is that it is compatible with all operating systems. 
It supports Arm Linux as well, which means we can build on machines such as Raspberry Pi.

Skynet uses Jenkins and manages the nodes we are trying to build on and the jobs that needs to be done. 
The jobs are autogenerated based on the `skynet.lua` configuration file on the build branch of the repository using the Job-DSL plugin. 

Job-DSL allows us to describe the jobs in the code rather than a web UI that can be annoying. 
Skynet, by having a file `repos.lua` to list all repos on Skynet and have Skynet Multijob runs every terminator, which creates jobs. 
The benefit of Skynet is that because the Lua code for Job-DSL is in applcommon.skynet of repos.lua file, all terminators and their jobs will be run again.
This means there is no need to manually re-generate all of the jobs.

Skynet configuration build branch Lua script instructs Jenkins to build a certain branch at a certain time on the machines and Skynet will generate the checkboxes for Jenkins. 
This allows only certain people to manage the jobs and other software engineers can focus on the software design and implementation.

Another benefit of Skynet would be built-in S3 (AWS file storage) support.
The artifacts, which can also be “bundled” from different builds into one package, are uploaded to S3.

## Cons of Skynet
However, Skynet requires the user to host their own Jenkins instance and build the servers, so our company will have to provide and maintain the server.
There will be costs associated with this downside since we will need the machines to build and run the servers and save the configuration on the Jenkins instance. 
There’s a slight chance that the configuration could be lost when the machines are fried.
Additionally, we will most likely need someone to have a physical access to the machines for the server and maintain them and troubleshoot Skynet server issues. 

Another possible issue with Skynet is the global configuration. 
If there are two or more separate jobs running in parallel, if a new job is added to the script, all the other jobs are unaware of the new job and will fail. 

# TravisCI
TravisCI is a web-based CI system that is free for open source projects, but not for companies like us.

## Pros of TravisCI
Unlike Skynet, TravisCI provides build servers, so unless their server is broken, there will not be an issue with server that we have to deal with.
This means the cost in both machines and human resource is lower since the server issues will be dealt with by someone from TravisCI.
The configuration is saved with the source code and it uses docker. 
There will be `.travis.yml` file on every branch and whenever there is a change, GitHub hooks notify TravisCI. 
Then TravisCI will look for `.travis.yml` to determine whether a build is necessary. 
If the file is present, TravisCI will build based on the instructions inside of it. 
Each build is on its own because docker is like a tiny VM. 
Containers are made and so the builds are not made on the base machine, which prevents possible complications with multiple builds. 

In addition, we can have different script to run on different branches of the same repository because TravisCI works on per-branch bases.
This means more flexibility with a single branch and that we can have special instructions for an exceptional case without creating a new repository for it.

## Cons of TravisCI
However, unlike Skynet, TravisCI only supports Linux, OS X, and Windows Server version 1803. 
If we need to run jobs on different version of Windows or some other operating system, TravisCI is simply incapable of doing that. 
If our company find that we need builds in a different operating system, TravisCI cannot suffice all our needs for a continuous integration software.

Most importantly, we will have to pay monthly to use TravisCI, and this cost is not going to be reduced unless we switch to a different software.

# Recommendation
Based on the comparison, I recommend using Skynet for our business. 
The support for all operating system is unbeatable. 
TravisCI for private project is not free and we will be billed every month for its use. 
However, because Jenkins is open source, the only cost to worry about is the cost of building and maintaining a server. 
It also eliminates a need to educate many software engineers on how to use continuous integration tools and allow them to focus on our company’s software development. 
This can increase the velocity of the delivery. 
The convenience of Skynet is greater than the benefit of TravisCI providing the server and using docker to prevent builds affecting each other.
